{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0 @SimSun;}{\f3\fnil Calibri;}{\f4\fnil\fcharset1 Cambria Math;}{\f5\fnil\fcharset1 Segoe UI Symbol;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}{\*\mmathPr\mmathFont4\mwrapIndent1440 }\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\fs28\lang9 Question :\b0\f1\fs22\par
 Can you take example of Linkedin website implementation and again do this analysis of what all features can be implemented on object storage, and which one (S3 or blob storage) is best for the same.\par
\par
\b\f0\fs28 Features: \b0\f1\fs22\par
1) Assign hot, cool and archive tags to accounts. \par
2) Frequency queries and append is expected whenever anyone open profile or send connect request \par
3) Account not in use for more than 3 years should be moved to archive\par
\par
\b\f0\fs28 AI Outputs: \b0\f1\fs22\par
\par
\b\f2\fs24 Claude AI : \b0\f1\fs22\par
Here's the full breakdown for a LinkedIn-style implementation:\par
\par
Feature 1 \f3\emdash  Hot/Cool/Archive tags on accounts\par
Both platforms support this, but Azure Blob wins on naming clarity:\par
Azure Blob has literal tiers called Hot, Cool, and Archive \emdash  you set them per-blob or via a lifecycle management policy. For LinkedIn, a lifecycle rule like "if lastModified > 1095 days, move to Archive" maps exactly to the 3-year requirement with zero custom code.\par
AWS S3 uses S3-Standard, S3-Standard-IA (Infrequent Access), and Glacier \emdash  conceptually identical, but the naming is indirect. You'd tag S3 objects with custom metadata to convey "hot/cool/archive" labels to your application, then use lifecycle rules to actually move them between storage classes.\par
\par
Feature 2 \emdash  Frequent reads and append (profile views, connection requests)\par
This is where the gap is most significant.\par
Azure Blob has a native Append Blob type. Every AppendBlock API call efficiently adds a segment to the end of the blob \emdash  this is exactly how event logs work. Profile view events, connection requests, messaging activity all get appended in real time. The blob stays in Hot tier while active, and a lifecycle rule transitions it to Cool after 90 days.\par
AWS S3 has no native append operation. Your options are: write a new object per event (expensive at millions of events/day), use multipart upload to simulate appending (complex orchestration), or front S3 with a service like Kinesis Data Firehose that batches writes. All of these add engineering overhead compared to Azure's first-class AppendBlock.\par
\par
Feature 3 \emdash  Archive accounts inactive for 3+ years\par
Both platforms handle this well via lifecycle policies triggered on lastModified timestamp.\par
AWS S3 offers three Glacier sub-tiers \emdash  Instant Retrieval (milliseconds, higher cost), Flexible Retrieval (3\endash 5 hours), and Deep Archive (12 hours, cheapest). This granularity is an advantage if you want to tune cost vs. recall speed precisely.\par
Azure Blob Archive rehydrates in up to 15 hours at standard priority, or under 1 hour at high-priority (billed extra). Less granular than Glacier, but the lifecycle policy syntax (daysAfterLastModificationGreaterThan: 1095) is cleaner and maps directly to the "3 year" requirement.\par
\par
Overall recommendation\par
Azure Blob Storage is the better fit for this LinkedIn scenario because two of the three features have native, first-class support: the tier labels literally match the requirement, and Append Blob eliminates the most painful engineering gap (frequent event appending).\par
The only reason to prefer AWS S3 is if your architecture already lives in AWS, or if you specifically need millisecond-level archive restores via Glacier Instant Retrieval \emdash  something Azure's Archive tier doesn't match at that speed.\par
\par
\par
\b\f2\fs24\lang1033 Chat-GPT:\b0\f1\fs22\par
\lang9 Using a LinkedIn-like platform as an example, let's evaluate whether account/profile data and activity data should be stored in object storage and whether Amazon S3 or Azure Blob Storage is a better fit for the requirements.\par
\par
LinkedIn-like Data Model\par
\par
Assume each account contains:\par
\par
\{\par
  "accountId": "12345",\par
  "name": "John Doe",\par
  "headline": "Software Engineer",\par
  "experience": [...],\par
  "education": [...],\par
  "lastProfileView": "2026-06-01",\par
  "lastLogin": "2026-05-20",\par
  "connections": 2500\par
\}\par
\par
Activity events:\par
\par
\{\par
  "accountId": "12345",\par
  "eventType": "PROFILE_VIEW",\par
  "timestamp": "2026-06-01T10:00:00"\par
\}\par
Requirement 1\par
Assign Hot, Cool and Archive tags to accounts\par
Business Meaning\par
Tier\tab Description\par
Hot\tab Frequently active users\par
Cool\tab Occasionally active users\par
Archive\tab Dormant users\par
\par
Examples:\par
\par
Logged in within 90 days \f4\u8594?\f1  Hot\par
Logged in within 1 year \f4\u8594?\f1  Cool\par
No activity > 3 years \f4\u8594?\f1  Archive\par
Amazon S3\par
\par
S3 provides:\par
\par
Object Tags\par
StorageTier=Hot\par
StorageTier=Cool\par
StorageTier=Archive\par
\par
Can be assigned directly to each profile object.\par
\par
Example:\par
\par
aws s3api put-object-tagging\par
\par
Advantages:\par
\par
Up to 10 tags/object\par
Lifecycle policies can use tags\par
Easy filtering\par
Azure Blob\par
\par
Provides:\par
\par
Blob Index Tags\par
StorageTier=Hot\par
StorageTier=Cool\par
StorageTier=Archive\par
\par
Advantages:\par
\par
Native querying on tags\par
Lifecycle policies\par
\par
Example:\par
\par
StorageTier='Hot'\par
Winner\par
\par
For tagging alone:\par
\par
Azure Blob slightly wins\par
\par
Reason:\par
\par
Blob Index Tags are searchable directly.\par
\par
Example:\par
\par
StorageTier='Archive'\par
\par
S3 tags are excellent but querying tagged objects at large scale typically requires Inventory + Athena.\par
\par
Requirement 2\par
Frequent queries and append whenever profile opens or connection request sent\par
\par
This is the critical requirement.\par
\par
LinkedIn Traffic Pattern\par
\par
When someone opens a profile:\par
\par
Read profile\par
Update profile view count\par
Write activity event\par
\par
When connection request sent:\par
\par
Read profile\par
Append event\par
Update statistics\par
\par
Potentially:\par
\par
Thousands to millions of writes/sec\par
Can S3 Handle This?\par
\par
Technically:\par
\par
Yes\par
\par
But not efficiently.\par
\par
Every update requires:\par
\par
Download object\par
Modify JSON\par
Upload entire object again\par
\par
Example:\par
\par
100 KB profile\par
\par
To update:\par
\par
GET 100 KB\par
Modify\par
PUT 100 KB\par
\par
Even if changing:\par
\par
"profileViews": 100\par
\par
Object storage does not support in-place updates.\par
\par
Can Blob Handle This?\par
\par
Same limitation.\par
\par
Blob Storage:\par
\par
Read blob\par
Modify\par
Rewrite blob\par
\par
No partial updates.\par
\par
Verdict\par
\par
For profile metadata:\par
\par
\f5\u10060?\f1  Object storage is NOT suitable\par
\par
Use:\par
\par
SQL Database\par
Cosmos DB\par
DynamoDB\par
Cassandra\par
\par
instead.\par
\par
Activity Logs\par
\par
Now consider:\par
\par
\{\par
  "accountId":"12345",\par
  "event":"PROFILE_VIEW"\par
\}\par
\par
Appending millions of records.\par
\par
Azure Append Blob\par
\par
Special blob type:\par
\par
Append Blob\par
\par
Supports:\par
\par
Append Block\par
Append Block\par
Append Block\par
\par
without rewriting existing data.\par
\par
Perfect for:\par
\par
Logs\par
Audit trails\par
Activity events\par
S3\par
\par
S3 does NOT support append.\par
\par
Need:\par
\par
Create new file\par
or\par
rewrite object\par
\par
Typical architecture:\par
\par
Event \f4\u8594?\f1  Kafka/EventHub\par
\f4\u8594?\f1  Batch files\par
\f4\u8594?\f1  S3\par
Winner\par
\par
For append-heavy workloads:\par
\par
Azure Blob wins clearly\par
\par
because Append Blob exists.\par
\par
Requirement 3\par
Accounts inactive for more than 3 years should move to archive\par
Amazon S3\par
\par
Lifecycle Rule:\par
\par
LastAccess > 3 years\par
\f4\u8595?\f1\par
Move to Glacier\par
\par
Possible destinations:\par
\par
Glacier Instant Retrieval\par
Glacier Flexible Retrieval\par
Glacier Deep Archive\par
\par
Example:\par
\par
Profile\par
\f4\u8595?\f1\par
S3 Standard\par
\f4\u8595?\f1\par
Glacier Deep Archive\par
\par
Storage cost becomes extremely low.\par
\par
Azure Blob\par
\par
Lifecycle Management:\par
\par
Hot\par
\f4\u8595?\f1\par
Cool\par
\f4\u8595?\f1\par
Archive\par
\par
based on:\par
\par
Last Modified\par
Blob Tags\par
\par
Example:\par
\par
lastLogin < 3 years\par
\par
Move to Archive Tier.\par
\par
Winner\par
\par
Tie\par
\par
Both support automated archival very well.\par
\par
Overall Architecture Recommendation\par
\par
For a LinkedIn-scale application:\par
\par
                    User Opens Profile\par
                             |\par
                             v\par
                SQL/DynamoDB/Cosmos DB\par
                       (Profile Data)\par
                             |\par
                             |\par
                             v\par
                Kafka / Event Hub Stream\par
                             |\par
                             v\par
                   Activity Log Storage\par
                             |\par
                   +---------+---------+\par
                   |                   |\par
                   v                   v\par
            Azure Append Blob     Analytics\par
Final Comparison\par
Requirement\tab S3\tab Azure Blob\tab Winner\par
Hot/Cool/Archive tagging\tab Good\tab Excellent\tab Azure Blob\par
Query by tag\tab Limited\tab Native\tab Azure Blob\par
Frequent profile reads/writes\tab Poor\tab Poor\tab Neither\par
Append activity logs\tab No native append\tab Append Blob\tab Azure Blob\par
Archive after 3 years\tab Excellent\tab Excellent\tab Tie\par
Lifecycle automation\tab Excellent\tab Excellent\tab Tie\par
LinkedIn-style activity tracking\tab Requires extra services\tab Simpler with Append Blob\tab Azure Blob\par
Conclusion\par
\par
For the three requirements you listed, Azure Blob Storage is the better object storage choice, primarily because of:\par
\par
Blob Index Tags (searchable tags).\par
Append Blob support for profile-view and connection-request activity logs.\par
Equivalent lifecycle management for Hot \f4\u8594?\f1  Cool \f4\u8594?\f1  Archive transitions.\par
\par
However, a LinkedIn-like system should not store actively changing profile/account records directly in object storage. Use a transactional database (e.g., Azure Cosmos DB, Amazon DynamoDB, SQL Server, PostgreSQL) for profile data and use Blob/S3 primarily for:\par
\par
Activity logs\par
Analytics history\par
Profile pictures\par
Resume uploads\par
Archived inactive accounts\par
Data lake storage for reporting and ML workloads.\lang9\par
}
 